Let's look up a term that is relevant in the news these days, the Coronavirus.
As you can see here,
the CDC has a website for looking up, ICD-10-CM codes.
Let's search for this term here,
and see what comes up.
So let's look at this result.
While there is a specific new code that will be added in October 2020,
we can see where some related codes are here.
In the search results, first,
we look at one of the main effects we see
from SARS-related coronavirus; which is pneumonia.
If we click on it, we can see how it is derived.
Looking at the tabular list view for pneumonia,
we can see the hierarchy starting with Chapter 10 for the J codes,
and then J12 for viral pneumonia.
This can hopefully help you see how the code set is structured.
Okay. Let's go back to the actual diagnosis of a SARS-related coronavirus.
We can see that in the first category,
that includes many infectious diseases.
Then we find B97 viral agents as the causes of diseases classified elsewhere.
Finally, we find B97.21 which is for the SARS-associated coronavirus.
This is for the first coronavirus.
You can see that it has been classified and listed under the ICD-10-CM codes.
So when Covid-19 comes out later this year,
you will probably see a code that's very similar to this using a similar structure.
So hopefully, this shows you how the codes are related,
and how we may possibly use this grouping to be able to categorize things better.
Some other important information to consider about
diagnosis codes encounters are that it may take multiple visits to confirm a diagnosis.
This occurs quite often.
Further, each distinct code can only be used once per encounter.
Lastly, chronic diseases can have the diagnosis code be repeated across encounters,
as the patient is continually treated for a condition.
Let's also go over a few important details about the prioritization of diagnosis codes.
At a high level, it is important to distinguish
what code is taking up the most resources or is the most critical.
There are a few terms that you should become familiar with.
The first one is the primary diagnosis code.
This is the code that takes up the most resources to treat.
A related and sometimes the same code is the principal diagnosis code.
This has a definition that focus on the diagnosis that is found
after hospitalization to be the one that is chiefly responsible.
This can be an important distinction since
the admitting diagnosis code can widely differ.
For the most part, we will treat these terms interchangeably,
but it's good to be aware of the differences,
and the need to dig into the details when necessary.
Lastly, we'll look at secondary diagnosis codes,
which are pretty simply the other diagnosis codes listed on an encounter.
For example, if a patient were to have a knee replacement surgery,
but had type 2 diabetes as a prior condition,
this other diagnosis or
secondary diagnosis code of type 2 diabetes would be included in their medical record.
Please note that secondary diagnosis codes can include many additional codes.